Things that may affect your own network reachability or access control lists or ACLC and firewall rules
in many networks that aren't actively being managed you'll find that security engineers have blocked
protocols such as this in MP and ICMP.
Those two protocols are very important network management protocols but for security reasons they may
have been blocked in various points in the network by security conscious engineers.
So it's important that when you starting to audit the network in preparation to a rollout that you pay
special attention to where traffic is allowed and where it's denied.
Now from a best practice point of view it's ideal to deploy a management plan which is separate to the
villans used for user traffic.
So a separate network or separate the villanies created and network management traffic is permitted
on that villain ACLJ and firewall rules on network devices would allow network management protocols
on that villain and allow anonymous to access the loopback of a router as an example.
Just be aware that if you limit access to network devices from only specific IP addresses.
So as an example you only allow the IP address of the network management system to access the rodders
loopback interface using SMP.
When you change things in your network such as expanding the network management applications you may
need to go back and adjust your access list or just your firewall rules.
So it may be simpler to permit a subnet access to your network devices rather than locking it down to
an individual IP address in the same way when discussing security you need to pay attention to different
security zones.
A customer may have an outside interface on a firewall and inside interface and a DMZ interface on their
firewall the security zones can impact your network management systems.
So you need to understand how you're going to deploy them in a mess and how security rules and firewalls
zones are going to affect overall reachability and the management strategy that you deploy.
Now last but not least you need to think about overlapping and non ratable addresses in your network
overlapping a non-radical addresses can be a real headache when deploying network management systems.
You should audit your network and understand which addresses are reachable and from when the network
and take that into account as you start documenting the systems and decide where to roll out your network
management system.
In many cases if you have overlapping address space and you have devices on each of those overlapping
subnets that you need to monitor you'll need to create a separate polling engine for NPM for each duplicate
address space zone.